docs/src/main/paradox/dynamodb.md, before:

# AWS DynamoDB

The AWS DynamoDB connector provides a flow for streaming DynamoDB requests. For more information about DynamoDB please visit the [official documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/).

@@project-info{ projectId="dynamodb" }

## Artifacts

@@dependency [sbt,Maven,Gradle] {
  group=com.lightbend.akka
  artifact=akka-stream-alpakka-dynamodb_$scala.binary.version$
  version=$project.version$
}

The table below shows direct dependencies of this module and the second tab shows all libraries it depends on transitively.

@@dependencies { projectId="dynamodb" }


## Setup

This connector requires a @javadoc[DynamoDbAsyncClient](software.amazon.awssdk.services.dynamodb.DynamoDbAsyncClient) instance to communicate with AWS DynamoDB.

It is your code's responsibility to call `close` to free any resources held by the client. In this example it will be called when the actor system is terminated.

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/ExampleSpec.scala) { #init-client }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ExampleTest.java) { #init-client }

This connector is set up to use @extref:[Akka HTTP](akka-http:) as default HTTP client via the thin adapter library [AWS Akka-Http SPI implementation](https://github.com/matsluni/aws-spi-akka-http). By setting the `httpClient` explicitly (as above) the Akka actor system is reused, if not set explicitly a separate actor system will be created internally.

It is possible to configure the use of Netty instead, which is Amazon's default. Add an appropriate Netty version to the dependencies and configure @javadoc[NettyNioAsyncHttpClient](software.amazon.awssdk.http.nio.netty.NettyNioAsyncHttpClient).


## Sending requests and receiving responses

For simple operations you can issue a single request, and get back the result in a @scala[`Future`]@java[`CompletionStage`].

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/ExampleSpec.scala) { #simple-request }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ExampleTest.java) { #simple-request }

You can also get the response to a request as an element emitted from a Flow:

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/ExampleSpec.scala) { #flow }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ExampleTest.java) { #flow }

Some DynamoDB operations, such as ListTables, Query and Scan, are paginated by nature.
This is how you can get a stream of all result pages:

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/ExampleSpec.scala) { #paginated }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ExampleTest.java) { #paginated }


## Error Retries and Exponential Backoff

The AWS SDK 2 implements error retrying with exponential backoff which is configurable via the @javadoc[DynamoDbAsyncClient](software.amazon.awssdk.services.dynamodb.DynamoDbAsyncClient) configuration by using the @javadoc[RetryPolicy](software.amazon.awssdk.core.retry.RetryPolicy) in `overrideConfiguration`.

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/RetrySpec.scala) { #clientRetryConfig }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/RetryTest.java) { #clientRetryConfig }

Commit message:

DynamoDB: flow with pagination (#1985)
* DynamoDB: flow with pagination
* Expect exception via annotation

docs/src/main/paradox/dynamodb.md, after:

# AWS DynamoDB

The AWS DynamoDB connector provides a flow for streaming DynamoDB requests. For more information about DynamoDB please visit the [official documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/).

@@project-info{ projectId="dynamodb" }

## Artifacts

@@dependency [sbt,Maven,Gradle] {
  group=com.lightbend.akka
  artifact=akka-stream-alpakka-dynamodb_$scala.binary.version$
  version=$project.version$
}

The table below shows direct dependencies of this module and the second tab shows all libraries it depends on transitively.

@@dependencies { projectId="dynamodb" }


## Setup

This connector requires a @javadoc[DynamoDbAsyncClient](software.amazon.awssdk.services.dynamodb.DynamoDbAsyncClient) instance to communicate with AWS DynamoDB.

It is your code's responsibility to call `close` to free any resources held by the client. In this example it will be called when the actor system is terminated.

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/ExampleSpec.scala) { #init-client }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ExampleTest.java) { #init-client }

This connector is set up to use @extref:[Akka HTTP](akka-http:) as default HTTP client via the thin adapter library [AWS Akka-Http SPI implementation](https://github.com/matsluni/aws-spi-akka-http). By setting the `httpClient` explicitly (as above) the Akka actor system is reused, if not set explicitly a separate actor system will be created internally.

It is possible to configure the use of Netty instead, which is Amazon's default. Add an appropriate Netty version to the dependencies and configure @javadoc[NettyNioAsyncHttpClient](software.amazon.awssdk.http.nio.netty.NettyNioAsyncHttpClient).


## Sending requests and receiving responses

For simple operations you can issue a single request, and get back the result in a @scala[`Future`]@java[`CompletionStage`].

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/ExampleSpec.scala) { #simple-request }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ExampleTest.java) { #simple-request }

You can also get the response to a request as an element emitted from a Flow:

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/ExampleSpec.scala) { #flow }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ExampleTest.java) { #flow }


### Flow with context

The `flowWithContext` allows to send an arbitrary value, such as commit handles for JMS or Kafka, past the DynamoDb operation.
The responses are wrapped in a @scaladoc[Try](scala.util.Try) to differentiate between successful operations and errors in-stream.

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/ExampleSpec.scala) { #withContext }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ExampleTest.java) { #withContext }


### Pagination

The DynamoDB operations `BatchGetItem`, `ListTables`, `Query` and `Scan` allow paginating of results.
The requests with paginated results can be used as source or in a flow with `flowPaginated`:

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/ExampleSpec.scala) { #paginated }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ExampleTest.java) { #paginated }


## Error Retries and Exponential Backoff

The AWS SDK 2 implements error retrying with exponential backoff which is configurable via the @javadoc[DynamoDbAsyncClient](software.amazon.awssdk.services.dynamodb.DynamoDbAsyncClient) configuration by using the @javadoc[RetryPolicy](software.amazon.awssdk.core.retry.RetryPolicy) in `overrideConfiguration`.

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/RetrySpec.scala) { #clientRetryConfig }

Java
: @@snip [snip](/dynamodb/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/RetryTest.java) { #clientRetryConfig }
