# Alpakka 1.0-M2

## Second milestone release for Alpakka 1.0

Many modules have been restructured to meet the preferred code layout as illustrated by the [Reference connector](https://doc.akka.io/docs/alpakka/current/reference.html).

On this [Road to Alpakka 1.0](https://akka.io/blog/news/2018/08/30/alpakka-towards-1.0) we are deliberately making a lot of non-compatible API changes to many connectors. From version 1.0 Alpakka will stay [binary-compatible](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/common/binary-compatibility-rules.html#binary-compatibility-rules) between minor releases.

Having that said, Alpakka will start to make use of the `@ApiMayChange` annotation to keep the door open for API changes in new modules, so that they can evolve more rapidly than other modules within Alpakka.

Even modules that have been changed to meet Alpakka 1.0 standards might get more API-breaking changes before Alpakka reaches 1.0. If you prefer adapting to these changes in one bigger step, keep the version you are using until Alpakka 1.0 is final.


## Highlights in this release

* Major refactoring of the @ref:[S3 module](../s3.md). See below for more details.


## Highlights per module

### @ref:[AWS S3](../s3.md)

The S3 module has been refactored to follow the preferred code layout.
This means that all of the factory methods have been moved from `S3Client` instance to a static factory @scala[@scaladoc[S3](akka.stream.alpakka.s3.scaladsl.S3$)]@java[@scaladoc[S3](akka.stream.alpakka.s3.javadsl.S3$)].
Also the factory method return types have been cleaned from @scala[`Future`]@java[`CompletionStage`] types.

These changes have been done with the intention to embrace the blue-print nature of Akka Stream API.
Any `Source`, `Flow` or a `Sink` should be reusable even across different `ActorSystem`s.
The old S3 module API made every stream related to a particular instance of `S3Client`, which was in turn related to a particular
`ActorSystem`, `ActorMaterializer` and `S3Settings`.
New API frees the factory methods from these dependencies.
All of the required resources are injected during the materialization time.

If you are loading `S3Settings` from the `application.conf` then migration should be done by changing all method calls on `s3Client` instance to method calls on the @scala[@scaladoc[S3](akka.stream.alpakka.s3.scaladsl.S3$)]@java[@scaladoc[S3](akka.stream.alpakka.s3.javadsl.S3$)] factory.
If you were using multiple `s3Client` instances with different configurations, then take a look at the new @ref:[documentation section](../s3.md#changing-s3-settings-for-part-of-the-stream) about how to use `S3Attributes` to apply different `S3Settings` to different parts of the same Akka Stream graph.

The configuration path has been shortened from `akka.stream.alpakka.s3` to `alpakka.s3`.
Please update your `application.conf` files accordingly.

Other changes:

 * allow to get object metadata without size limit @github[#1332](#1332)
 * path-style access is now the default @github[#1308](#1308)
 * requests are now retried for S3 internal errors @github[#1303](#1303)
 * fix session token access @github[#1299](#1299)
 * downloaded file is wrapped into an `Option` to allow for missing files @github[#1275](#1275)
 * cache control added to object metadata requests @github[#1274](#1274)
 * support for exceptions from non XML responses @github[#1265](#1265)
 * [all closed issues](https://github.com/akka/alpakka/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A1.0-M2+label%3Ap%3Aaws-s3)
